EVASH Ultra EEPROM Development Board User Guide
Introduction
Welcome to the EVASH Ultra EEPROM Development Board User Guide. This guide will provide you with comprehensive instructions on how to use the EVASH Ultra EEPROM Development Board, featuring the EV24C256A chip. This development board is designed to help you evaluate and develop applications using EVASH EEPROM technology.

Development Board Overview
The EVASH Ultra EEPROM Development Board is equipped with the EV24C256A chip, which is a 256Kb EEPROM with I²C interface. The board includes all necessary components to interface with microcontrollers and other digital systems, making it ideal for development, testing, and prototyping.

Board Layout
Front Side

R1, R2, R3: Pull-up resistors for I²C communication lines.
C1, C2: Decoupling capacitors for stable power supply.
U1: EV24C256A EEPROM chip.
WP: Write-protect pin.
SCL: I²C clock line.
SDA: I²C data line.
Back Side

A0, A1, A2: Address pins for configuring the I²C address.
GND: Ground pin.
Getting Started
Powering the Board
The EVASH Ultra EEPROM Development Board operates within a voltage range of 1.7V to 5.5V. Connect the VDD pin to your power supply within this range and connect the GND pin to ground.

Connecting to a Microcontroller
To interface the development board with a microcontroller, connect the following pins:

SDA: Connect to the microcontroller’s I²C data line.
SCL: Connect to the microcontroller’s I²C clock line.
GND: Connect to the ground of the microcontroller’s power supply.
VDD: Connect to the same power supply as the microcontroller.
Setting the I²C Address
The EV24C256A EEPROM supports multiple I²C addresses, which can be configured using the A0, A1, and A2 pins. These pins can be tied to VDD or GND to set the desired address.

Write Protection
The WP (Write Protect) pin can be used to protect the contents of the EEPROM from being modified. Connect this pin to VDD to enable write protection, or to GND to disable it.

Testing the Development Board
Required Materials
Microcontroller (e.g., Arduino, STM32, etc.)
I²C connection cables
Power supply (1.7V to 5.5V)
Development environment (e.g., Arduino IDE, STM32CubeIDE)
Example Code
Below is an example of how to read and write data to the EV24C256A EEPROM using an Arduino:

cpp
复制代码
#include <Wire.h>

#define EEPROM_ADDRESS 0x50

void setup() {
  Wire.begin();
  Serial.begin(9600);

  // Write data to EEPROM
  Wire.beginTransmission(EEPROM_ADDRESS);
  Wire.write(0x00); // Memory address
  Wire.write('H'); // Data
  Wire.write('e');
  Wire.write('l');
  Wire.write('l');
  Wire.write('o');
  Wire.endTransmission();
  delay(10); // Wait for EEPROM write cycle to complete

  // Read data from EEPROM
  Wire.beginTransmission(EEPROM_ADDRESS);
  Wire.write(0x00); // Memory address
  Wire.endTransmission();
  
  Wire.requestFrom(EEPROM_ADDRESS, 5);
  while (Wire.available()) {
    char c = Wire.read();
    Serial.print(c); // Print data to Serial Monitor
  }
}

void loop() {
  // Do nothing in loop
}
Testing Procedure
Set up the hardware: Connect the development board to the microcontroller as described in the connection section.
Power up the board: Ensure the power supply is correctly connected and the voltage is within the specified range.
Load the example code: Upload the provided example code to your microcontroller.
Monitor the output: Open the Serial Monitor (in Arduino IDE) to view the data read from the EEPROM.
Troubleshooting
No data output: Ensure all connections are secure and correct. Verify that the I²C address is correctly set and matches the code.
Write errors: Check the WP pin status. If write protection is enabled, disable it by connecting the WP pin to GND.
Conclusion
The EVASH Ultra EEPROM Development Board is a powerful tool for developing and testing EEPROM applications. This guide has provided the essential steps to get started, including powering the board, making connections, and running a basic test. For more detailed information, visit our official website evash.top.

For further assistance, please contact our technical support team.
